Working Guideline:

The step down center-tapped transformer converts 6V AC from the AC main single phase supply. AC to DC is rectified and converted by two diodes (1N4007). 555 clock use for producing the time delay. In this task think about three sorts of burden. such as peak load, off-peak load, and base load. Consider a time delay of five seconds for base load. The time delay is taken into account for both peak and off-peak loads. Shorted ordinarily open terminal of all 6v hand-off and associated with the one finish of the heap. One more terminal of the heap is associated with the principal AC power supply live line. We use three different rating loads in this case. For example, 60 watt(base load), 100watt(off-top burden) and 200 watt(peak load).

In this undertaking, we keep the voltage rating 220V steady. For base load, think about the timer circuit and step down transformer 1. Correspondingly transformer-2 for off-pinnacle and transformer-3 for top burden. At the point when 220V comes from principal supply to the transformer-1, clock circuit gives 5 seconds postpone then current move through the transfer. Then the transfer is invigorated and 60watt burden is associated if press the switch. Using a clamp meter, we measure the current across the load. On the off chance that current is not exactly the heap rating current, utilize current infusion gadget to give the appraised current to the heap. With the goal that we give the heap appraised power. Comparative activity additionally occur for transformer-2 and transformer-3, just contrast is produce time delay.
